Submission details

    How to submit
    The exact procedure for submitting with the electronic submitting system is explaned in the 
    "General Submission Instructions", you will find a link before the link to this document.
    What should you submit:
    
    This is a general description of what to submit. Further details is descibed in each separate part of the
    assignments, if not, this is what you submit.

    [Note: Write in English; both comments in code and in the readme file 
    (but not needed in pdf files unless you are taking a master course where English is mandatory). 
    The reason is that Swedish letters does not travel well over internet especially from PC's to other computers.]

    The documentation normally consists of
        -one README.pdf file (sometimes extended to a full labreport) with information about your submission 
        useful for the grader like (preferably in this order)
            -your labgroupnumber and your names,
            -what files belong to each subproblem,
            -what is the compilation/execution commands for each subproblem
            (this is not needed in the case of "javac file.java" but only if compilation command is nonstandard)
            
            -other useful information for the grader,

            and answers to questions and things that are not well contained in the source code (figures, explanations
            of the solutions (if needed), UML diagrams, references etc) and answers to posible questions.
            It also includes reference to all your sources of information that helped you solve the problems, 
            books, magazines, web, alive or dead and so on. The only exception is the coursebook, 
            course slides and irrelevant sources (like your boy/girl-friends continuous support) which you don't need
            to mention and of course you don't need to mention that you were helped by an assistant on the course.
            Preferably you submit this as a pdf or postscript file. If that's not possible you can hand in 
            handwritten pages on paper directly to the examiner. Be prepared to motivate why you can't make a pdf file.
            In that case; make a README.txt (text file) and say so in your README-file. 

        (compilable) source code (as text files) for every subproblem in separate files.
        Dont forget labgroupnumber and name(s) in every file.

        You must implement programs in the programming language Java and the program has to be compilable (and runable) 
        on a StuDat computer see below.

        The correctness of your labs will be partially checked by testing software therefore you must be careful
        to follow the instructions in each assignment about input/output and placements of code.

        Once more; dont forget labgroupnumber and name(s) in every file. 
        
    Organization of your files:
    
        If the labPM doesn't say differently then (this part is probably where instructions can differ most):

        a) Create a directory in your homedirectory or somewhere else where you like to keep these files. 
        Call it something like pt, algo, labs, ....
        b) Move to this directory and create directorys there for each part of the lab called "x.lab1", "x.lab2" 
        and so on where x is your labgroup number from Fire. You put the sourcecode and the README/labreport 
        files in x.laby and when you submit it is this directory and it's content that you submit.
        So a README file that belongs to lab 1 for the labgroup 53 in the course algorithms will be placed in

        your homedir/algo/53.lab1/README.pdf

        and when you submit i.e. compress with tar, you do so from the directory algo.

        OBS: Make shure these directorys are unreadable to others i.e. that they have permissions set to 
        drwx------. Otherwise your assignement may be copied and then you may be accused of cheating since 
        it's not possible for us to determine who is copying and who is copied from. 
        
    Ready to submit?
        You shold have at least the following files in subdirectory x.lab1/ to submit lab 1:
            README.pdf,
            program.java (choose a better name of course, Main.java is often prefered) 

        All files needed to compile and run your assignment + the README file must be in .../x.lab1 but
        No unneccesary files! (like .class files or editor backup files like tilde files from emacs. 
        Do a "ls -a" command to make sure.)

        When you are ready to submit you must often pack your files with "tar". 
        Your files are then "packed" into one file that is suitable for transmission over internet.
        The advantage of packing is biggest when you submit many files at the same time. 
        For this reason packing is sometimes not used when you only submit 1-2 files, see labPM for information on that. Go to the directory where you keep the x.lab1 files and execute the command

        tar -zcvf x.lab1.tar.gz x.lab1

        First argument are flags to the command, second argument is the resulting file name and last argument 
        is the folder where your assignment files are.
        For instance, if you are group 5 and you are submitting lab 1 then the command should look like
        tar -zcvf 5.lab1.tar.gz 5.lab1
        The result of this comand should be a file named "5.lab1.tar.gz" which you submit according to the 
        Submission Instructions.

        Now you are ready to log on to the lab report system and submit the lab (i.e. the tar file).

        Note: All this assumes that you are working on a Chalmers computer (or another Unix system). 
        For windows computers there is a program, 7-zip, that can be user to make tar files. 
